# kinesis-data-and-firehose-process-record-s3

## Prerequisites

- Python 3
- Docker


## What is in this repository
This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- splitter - Code for the application's Lambda function and it's job is to split the event records in a batch by adding a newline character to the end so that when events are stored in the S3, each event record occupies one line.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- tests - Unit tests for the application code. 
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

## Goal
The goal of this application is to build an event process pipeline starting from Kinesis Data Stream and using Firehose Delivery Stream to eventually store data in a S3 Bucket.

- Kinesis Data Stream - which you can send events to using API Gateway
- Kinesis Firehose Delivery Stream - which functions as the consumer of data stream and receives event data
- S3 bucket - where event records are permamently stored
- Lambda function - performs source transformation before storing data into S3

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions, Kinesis Data and Firehose Streams and S3 Bucket. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. You can update the template to add AWS resources through the same deployment process that updates your application code.

If you prefer to use an integrated development environment (IDE) to build and test your application, you can use the AWS Toolkit.  
The AWS Toolkit is an open source plug-in for popular IDEs that uses the SAM CLI to build and deploy serverless applications on AWS. The AWS Toolkit also adds a simplified step-through debugging experience for Lambda function code. 

## Deploy the application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.


To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam package --s3-bucket $S3_BUCKET_NAME
sam deploy --stack-name $STACK_NAME --s3-bucket $S3_BUCKET_NAME --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package your application to AWS. Thast last command will deploy your application to AWS.

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build ` command.

```bash
$ sam build
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `splitter/requirements.txt`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
>$ sam local invoke SplitterFunction --event events/event.json
```


## Add a resource to your application
The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
$ sam logs -n SplitterFunction --stack-name $STACK_NAME --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) and run unit tests.

```bash
$ pip3 install pytest pytest-mock --user
$ python3 -m pytest tests/ -v
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name $STACK_NAME
```

