# sqs-lambda-s3-lambda-sns

## Prerequisites

- Python 3
- Docker


## What is in this repository
This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- storage - Code for the application's Lambda function and it's job is to process message
arriving at SQS queue and store it to a S3 bucket
- notification - Code for application's Lambda function and it's job is to process event resulting from files arriving at S3 bucket and publish message to SNS topic
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

## Goal
The goal of this application is to build an event process pipeline to be triggered when ever
a message arrives on a SQS queue or DLQ. Message is permanently stored in S3 and notification
is sent out to interested recipients.

- Storage Lambda - to be triggered when a message arrives at SQS queue
- S3 bucket - where message is permamently stored
- Notification Lambda - process event notification from S3 and publish message to SNS topic

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions, S3 and SNS Topic. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. You can update the template to add AWS resources through the same deployment process that updates your application code.

If you prefer to use an integrated development environment (IDE) to build and test your application, you can use the AWS Toolkit.  
The AWS Toolkit is an open source plug-in for popular IDEs that uses the SAM CLI to build and deploy serverless applications on AWS. The AWS Toolkit also adds a simplified step-through debugging experience for Lambda function code. 

## Deploy the application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.


To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam package --s3-bucket $S3_BUCKET_NAME
sam deploy --stack-name $STACK_NAME --s3-bucket $S3_BUCKET_NAME --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package your application to AWS. Thast last command will deploy your application to AWS.

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build ` command.

```bash
$ sam build
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `storage/requirements.txt` and `notification/requirements.txt` , creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
>$ sam local invoke MessageStorageFunction --event events/sqs-message-event.json
```


## Add a resource to your application
The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
$ sam logs -n MessageStorageFunction --stack-name $STACK_NAME --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).


## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name $STACK_NAME
```

